I was the ringleader of a criminal gang.
We extorted money,
put people out of business,
threatened them,
dragged them away.
And they would hand over everything.
People were afraid of me,
and I liked it that way.
I never forgave anybody.
If someone wronged me,
I would say:
“Throw one stone at me!
I’ll bury you in a mountain of rocks!”
In 1993,
I was working for the police.
They assigned me to gather information
about a gang
whose leader was Vladimir Olkhov.
One time, when committing a crime,
they caught me at the scene.
I swore revenge on everybody involved
with my arrest.
During interrogations,
I did everything
to humiliate Vladimir
and tried to break him.
We just hated each other!
I told Valery,
“Just remember:
“Sooner or later
I’m getting out of prison
and then you’re a dead man!”
I thought to myself:
‘For a start,
‘I’m going to blow up his car.
If he doesn’t understand,
then I’ll just eliminate him.’
His threats sounded so serious
that I started to fear for my life.
I decided to have my friends
and acquaintances
make his life behind bars unbearable
and to make sure
that he would never get out.
I saw that one of my cell mates
had a pocket New Testament.
I asked him if I could read it.
Seeing my interest in spiritual things,
someone gave me a Watchtower magazine.
When I started reading the magazine,
I realized that there are
other people out there—real people.
There’s a totally different way
of life to be had, even now,
and with such prospects.
I was just stunned.
Then I found another five magazines
around the prison.
I devoured them as well.
And I became thoroughly convinced
that I had found the truth.
When my wife was first allowed to visit me,
I told her right away,
“I’ve found the truth!”
My wife made pretty fast progress
and was baptized two years later.
Her support was invaluable.
She would visit me,
constantly encouraging me
to be faithful
and remain loyal to God.
In 1993,
Jehovah’s Witnesses visited me.
I agreed to a Bible study,
but the truth didn’t touch my heart.
One time, Jehovah’s Witnesses
invited me to a gathering,
and there they told me that Vladimir Olkhov
—that criminal—
was about to get baptized
and become one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I was cut to the heart!
When I got home,
I burst into tears.
Because if he,
in his circumstances,
could do it, then I could do it.
That very moment,
I prayed for the first time in my life.
I was released in October of 1997.
After I was released,
the brothers organized a gathering.
They invited me to this gathering.
I remember
that as I was approaching the place,
I suddenly realized this is where
I once conducted a search!
And then Valery walked into the room.
We just hugged each other
and burst into tears.
And I saw in his eyes
a completely different look,
not like before
—it was a kind look.
It brought tears to my eyes.
It was like a big weight
was lifted from my chest.
‘My brother!’
We begged one another for forgiveness.
On the 23rd of November 1997,
I was baptized together in the same pool
as my new friend Valery.
We really became the best of friends.
And now we serve as elders
in the same congregation.
My wife and I often talk about
what would have happened to us
if we had not started to study the Bible.
Probably we wouldn’t even be alive now.
We’ve kept our family together.
Even better,
we now have a spiritual family
in the Christian congregation.
And my former enemy
is now my brother and best friend.
More importantly, we’ve developed
a close relationship with Jehovah.
Only God is able to change the thinking
of such bitter enemies as Vlad and I were.
And I eagerly look forward to the day
when everything that divides people
will be gone forever.